It was the most devastating thing that
ever happened in my life. Thinking, what
have I got to live for? And um
[clears throat]
[snorts] Oh gosh.
Have to give me a minute.
Please welcome Simon Cow.
The scale of his success is staggering.
Who's changed the landscape of
television and music.
Absolutely dreadful.
As a kid, you were quite naive, weren't
you?
Seriously naive. trying to take on the
world with a music publishing company
which fails in the car park. And then
you go from there to I'm going to start
my own record label at 24.
I met Senita in this club and I thought
I'm going to make a record with her. I
don't know how a records made. I can't
read music but let's just do it. The
first time it flopped, second time it
flopped. Even when I had the hit, I owed
the bank £500,000
and I'm broke. But I would rather be
mocked for [music] being different than
being safe. Do you remember this single?
Their album hits number one.
Yeah, but this was a real bittersweet
time because I get a phone call which
starts with, "Are you sitting down?"
And I was on a downward spiral from that
period. Became a ridiculous workaholic
working until 7:00 in the morning
suffering from depression. [music] And
the truth is I still suffer from
depression at times.
What about One Direction? The one thing
I regret about One Direction is, so
boys, if you're listening,
we've just hit 6 million subscribers on
the Dire of Sio. Um, so me and my team
would like to do something we've never
done before as a little thank you. And
we're calling it the Dire of Sio
subscriber raffle. And here is how it
works. Every episode this month, we're
going to pick three current subscribers
at random. And we'll send one of you a
£1,000 voucher. one of you tickets to
come and watch the DEIO behind the
scenes live with our team. And one of
you will have a 10-minute phone call
with me to discuss whatever you want to
talk about. If you're a subscriber,
you're in the raffle. Thank you from the
bottom of my heart for allowing me to do
something that me and my team love doing
so much. It is the greatest honor of my
lifetime, and I hope it I hope it
continues uh off into the future. Let's
get to the episode. [music]
Simon, in order to understand the man
that sits with me today, what is the
early context that I must know about
that will help me to
understand the Simon cow that all of us
know so well. What is that early context
that the oven that you were you were
cooked in?
Well, I had a happy childhood. I was
always bored though. Uh, really bored at
school. I always wanted to have a life
where I would be interested and have
have fun. When I was told the school
days are the best days of your life, I'm
thinking, "Oh my god, this is terrible
because I hate school." So, uh, I was
really determined to do something where
I would be actually just having fun.
That's what I kept thinking to myself
and I want to start making my own money.
Um and and one thing my parents did do
when we were very very young because in
those days you could actually even at
the age of about seven or eight, you
know, in our neighborhood is go around
to people's houses, knock on their door
and say, "Can I can I wash your car? Can
I mow the lawn?" Uh cuz my mom and dad
said, "Um, if we pay for the holiday,
you've got to earn your spending money."
So I'm like, "Fine." So, but I used to
love it. Um, if you if you got 10 quid
for like washing a car, I mean, it was
like bingo. It was the best feeling. So,
you mentioned your mother there. Can you
tell me about the influence that your
mother and your father, Julie and Eric
Mhm.
had on you?
When I lost them, um, particularly when
I lost my mom because then it was kind
of final. It was the most devastating
thing that ever happened in my life. I
mean, it was a very it was as bad as
things could possibly be. Um, and we
just had the most amazing relationship.
Um, uh, my mom was the disciplinarian. I
remember
I must have been about four years old,
maybe even younger. And, and I remember
where I was. I was sitting in the car
and she said something to me and she
said, "Maners maketh the man." And I'm
like, "What does that mean?" She goes,
"Maners, make of the man." And then she
explained what that meant. And it's
always stuck in my head because it's
such an oldfashioned way of saying be
polite. Both my parents were very kind
of uh old school. Um they were very
respectful to everyone. I always
remember that. And I looked up to both
of them. And I always knew at any time I
could go to them uh when I needed
advice. Um and they would always give me
the right steer and they were always
there for me.
Your work ethic is renowned.
Yeah.
I've spoken to a lot of people in your
team currently. Um and one of the things
they always described is through much of
what got you to where you are today is
an insane work ethic. And when I say
insane, I mean insane with every sense
of the word. M
where does that come from? Because you
know you said your childhood was happy
and typically when someone has a pretty
insane work ethic you there's some kind
of trauma at somewhere you know but for
you I couldn't quite identify what that
was.
It it probably comes from um my dad uh
worked for a large corporation. Um and
before he retired, he said to me, "Don't
work for a large company because when
you're, you know, 65 or whatever,
they're going to retire you and you'll
never hear from them again." And that is
exactly what happened to my dad. And it
was heartbreaking because he did work
hard. He was a very loyal person, you
know, to the company he worked for. When
he passed away, you know, he didn't have
any money. That's probably
what made me realize a I don't want to
be in that position. And secondly, the
only way I can achieve that is by
working for myself. And I always had
this crazy vision of if I work for a
company and I don't get on well with the
boss,
he's gonna probably invite me to his
house and talk about golf. I just always
had this in my head thinking I couldn't
think of anything worse than having to
suck up to a boss who doesn't like me.
And the reason I kept thinking my boss
would never like me is because I was so
bad at school and my teachers were quite
strict with me. So I thought work was
probably going to be the same.
Um so uh that's what drove me and you
know my dad also you know he knew you
know cuz I I I didn't do very well with
my exam results and he did say to me
it's quite clear some you're not going
to make university. Um have you made up
your mind what you want to do? And I
said this, I want to do something I
think in entertainment. I'm not sure
what. And he said, "Look, whatever you
do, you're going to have to be patient
because it's not going to happen
overnight. You if you want to do well,
you got to learn to be good at it. And
it could take 20 years, it could take 30
years, but understand that." And I'm
like, I'm fine with that. And I really
was fine with that.
Your dad seems like a man that gave a
lot of actual advice. a lot of advice
that frankly I read your book as well
that you can still remember to this day
because my parents taught me things but
vicariously by watching them. I can't
think of a single sentence that my my
parents said to me that was advice. But
you've got so much advice that you
recite from your father which I think is
pretty remarkable.
Well, yeah, he I mean one of the um the
things that always stuck in my mind and
it was quite an odd thing to say to a
12-year-old. He said, "Everyone in life,
Simon, has a sign on their head and it
says, "Make me feel important and I want
you to think about that." I'm thinking,
"Sign on their head or I have no idea
what that means. Why'd he say that?
Maybe he's had a couple of drinks." Um,
and then I forget when I realized what
it meant, but boy did that stick in my
mind, which was if you want to do one in
life, it's going to be a team effort.
and make sure you recognize
every single person on that team. And so
if I walk into a room, um I instantly
um I think pretty much from the point I
understood it is that I can walk into a
room and I can see I see everything in
one in in one moment. I see the person
who's opening the door. I see the person
who's doing a particular job. So in
other words, I see the room always as a
team.
And you did that the minute you walked
into this room because there was what 10
people here from the person that opened
the door, the person that got the
coffee, the people, you know, taking
care of the cameras and you and this is
rare and obviously I've done 300 of
these conversations. You went around to
every single person in this room and
took an interest in every single person,
which is it's not typical,
especially when you're dealing with
people that are have a have of a big
sort of public profile. We've had people
walk in completely ignore me for 10
minutes, sit down and text [laughter]
and take phone calls.
Nice.
Uh I unfortunately I've seen a lot of
that as well.
Yeah.
Uh and I see an awful lot of hypocrisy
which are people Yes. who who on the
outside, you know, they they show one
side of it. I then always see that
person when they're off camera and who
they really are and um and they are the
opposite. they will just like you said
completely ignore everybody. Um the
worst thing is and I had this as I as I
was you know trying to get my career
started. There's nothing worse than when
you're talking to somebody and as as
they're talking to you that they're
they're looking for someone more
important than you. I I remember feeling
that you know uh at an early age in my
career and how that felt and it was very
demeaning. And I suppose, you know,
those two uh stories about my mom and
dad, they were really really really
important things and they must have
known that I that that would uh mean
something for me later on in life. And
I've said the same thing uh to my son
Eric. You know, I remember the first
time I said to him, Eric, manners maketh
the man. He was about two and he's like,
give me and he repeated it back
completely wrong. I said, no, say it
again. And then eventually I think he
must have been about four and he was
very polite to someone and I and I said
I'm very proud of you Eric and he went
manners maketh the man daddy and I'm
like you've got it. [laughter]
Maybe you need a little bit of patience
trying to indoctrinate the 2-year-old.
[laughter]
But you turn you turn to your father and
you express that you'll pursue
entertainment
and music. at sort, a 12. How old were
you when you first said that to your
father?
I probably I was Yeah, I would have been
about 12ish. Um, there was nothing I
excelled in at school at all.
You were surrounded by music people and
entertainment people where you lived. I
think your dad at one point worked at
EMI.
Yeah, he he he worked for their real
estate division.
Is is that where music cuz I'm trying to
figure out where music came from. I've
I've got this kid that's naughty, not
paying attention in school. I read the
stories about you holding up a bus with
a spud gun. [laughter]
Shouldn't have said that. You were
dreaming, but they called the police
because
you were holding up a a bus with a spud
gun. And I'm thinking, where does music
come into it? Cuz it doesn't appear like
you're playing a huge amount of musical.
Well, I I loved buying records. Um, so
just, you know, going into a record shop
um and saving up enough money for your,
you know, to buy a single or an album
was just everything. So most of my
spending money would go on on records. I
I can vividly remember going into my
bedroom with a brand new album and just
loving listening to every single track
on it. It was such an exciting feeling.
So when you leave school and you go off
and try and find your own career, you
worked a few jobs. You were a trainee at
Tesco, I think, at one point. Well, uh,
my dad, uh, he said, uh, okay, uh, you
failed all your exams, uh, twice. Uh, so
you're going to have to get a job
assignment. Um, uh, and since you're not
qualified, uh, what about Tesco's? I
don't know where that came from. I'm
like, doing what? and he said, "Well,
you know, you could uh end up maybe
managing a store or something." And I'm
like, "Okay." So, I turned up at this
interview. And I remember I wore jeans.
And before I even sat down, the guy
said, "Uh, how dare you? Um, how dare
you come in here wearing jeans?" And I
like, "I'm sorry." He said, "Well, how
dare you?" And I was so annoyed. I said,
"You know what? I'm really glad I came
here because I never want to work for
you or your company. And by the way,
your office looks like
[laughter]
and walked out. So that didn't go down
well. My mom uh made an application for
me to work for the civil service. Um so
I was interviewed to be I think like a
law clerk or something. Um, and that and
it actually had a chart which told you
exactly how much money you would make at
the age of 64. And I'm like, that's not
going to happen. Then my dad thought I
should be in the building trade and I
was going to have to work at this sort
of building site, whatever it was, for 2
years to learn everything. And I
thought, no. Um, and then eventually I
got a job uh as a runner at um El Street
Studios. And the second I got that job,
it was like brilliant. Uh, I was so
happy and and it and it was hard work.
Why Why was that job the you described
it, I think, as a sliding doors moment
in in your life. Why was that job Why
was that your to your heart? I'd kind of
worked out that how to become a
director, you know, you have to become a
third assistant, second assistant, first
assistant, two years in editing suites,
blah blah blah. Uh, and I was I was up
for that. I thought this is something I
I think I would love. Unfortunately, the
contract I had, it only lasted for 2
months. And the executive producer
uh was so mean uh that he said after two
months, well, that's it. We don't need
you anymore. But the PAs liked me so
much they paid for my salary. Really? So
every But he was so awful, this guy.
every time he would come into the
building, I used to have to hide under
their desks and he caught me one day and
he said, "What are you still doing
here?" And I said, "Well,
nothing." He said, "Well, who's paying
you?" And I said, "Nobody." And he said,
"Well, you're not allowed to be here."
And he threw me out. And then I nearly
got a job on
actually I was offered a job as a runner
on The Shining. They were just making
that I I saw the hotel being built on
the lot when I was a runner.
Um my mom at the same time had made an
application for me to work in the post
room at EMI Music Publishing.
You're how old at this point?
I was 17. 17 point. Yeah. So, I had this
choice of I could become a runner uh
uh at a big film studio on what looked
like a great movie.
Mhm.
Or I could go in the post room at EMY
Music Publishing. And something made me
go and I'll tell you what it was. I
passed the studio where I was going to
work as a runner one particular day and
there was a queue of people just outside
the building and I went up to someone
and I said, you know, what's everyone
queuing for? And they went work. I said,
what do you mean? They said, well, um,
no one here is on contract and, uh, when
a new production, you know, uh, happens,
uh, it's pretty much first come, first
served. And I'm thinking, God, this
doesn't sound very reliable. Um, I don't
like the idea of that. So, I think I'll
take my chances and I'll work in the
music publishing post room.
In the You say the post room?
Yeah.
Do you mean where the post is sent?
Yeah. Literally. So, it was it wasn't a
very nice building. Um, uh, and our It
was almost like being in a garage where
we were. It was definitely a basement.
Um
uh the there were two guys who used to
work I think one of them was called
Harry or something. They were probably
in their mid to late 60s and I'd turn up
all cocky you know uh right I've got a
job at the post room and I'm going to do
this and I'm going to do that and they
were like just make us a cup of tea son
and blah blah blah. But it was it was
good be uh because uh I did get a chance
to understand what everybody did in in
in the company and I I think I was
making £18 a week at that point and as
the months wore on because I thought
someone's going to realize I'm really
talented and offer me a great job and I
literally would walk into everyone's
offices pretty much every day and say
can can I have a job a better job and
there's nothing going. I I literally
even the managing director I I just
walked in one day and I said, "I'm
Simon.
Can I have a job because I'm really
passionate and he just threw me out of
this office." Um
were you asking questions about the
industry to those people in those
offices
always? Yeah. Every time. Every time.
There were a few people who were really
really kind to me and they explained
what they did. They un they explained to
me how music publishing worked, what
they do for the writers, the cataloges,
everything. So I started to get an
understanding of how the music business
worked. I also glimpsed some of the
checks that were coming in being in the
mail room. Uh and my jaw dropped. Um,
seeing how much Kate Bush, for instance,
earned, it was like, bloody hell. If you
do one in this business, there's a lot
of money. I had no idea.
There's something about that in terms of
like career advice because I really
heard that you were, even though you're
in the post room, you're peppering
people with lots of questions. Yeah. Now
there's a lot of you know there's a lot
of people working a lot of jobs right
now who might not have
understood the importance of being
curious even if you're at the very start
of your career or the bottom of the
proverbial ladder.
Yeah.
But that seemed to be really pivotal
because there's a lot of people that
would work in a post room and know
nothing else but the but the post room.
Yeah.
But you you were annoying people.
I was actually maybe in a kind of a
charmingly annoying way. Um, I was
always, you know, very polite. I was
very on time. I would always say,
"Here's your um, uh, mail, sir. Ma'am,
is there anything else I can do for you?
And while I'm here, blah blah blah blah
blah." Uh, and so, uh, I was sort of
like the company pet. However, it did
start to go on me after a while about
how little money I was making and my
brother making a lot of money now being
uh an estate agent. And I and and I
wasn't offered a a job out of the mail
room. I thought it was going to happen
after about a year, after 18 months,
nothing. And so
I'm I said, "Right, nothing's happening
here. I'm going to become an estate
agent." And my dad because he did have
connections with property he got me to
work for a company called Hillia Parker
May and now even by the name you can
just tell the kind of people who I mean
they were just awful awful people really
snobby
uh really mean really rude. And after a
month, uh, my mom, uh, said to me,
"You're really unhappy, aren't you?" And
I said, "Yes, I'm really unhappy. I hate
this." Um, and then my dad, uh, knew the
guy who ran EMI music publishing that.
Now, this is where I was in the post
room. And I don't really think he
connected me with my dad because my dad
actually said to him, "I can't believe
after 18 months you didn't, you know,
give Simon at least a little promotion."
He went, "I didn't realize that was your
son." Or so he claims. I I'll never
know. Um anyway, the next thing is an
opening suddenly arrives and and my mom,
I remember her face. She said, "I've got
some really exciting news for you." And
I said, "What?" She said, "I think uh
there's a uh a better job for you at EMI
music publishing and you got to have an
interview." And it was working in the
international department of EMI music
publishing, which basically means that
uh writers that were signed say in
America, Germany, whatever, this
department administered
their copyrights,
right? Um, and the job that became
available was a song plugger, which
meant um, all of the hundreds of
thousands or if not millions of songs
they published, my job was to get other
people to cover those songs so they
could generate more money.
Oh, okay.
Um, and to do that, uh, it was quite a
difficult job because it was the country
music division. Now, at that point,
country was not very popular in the UK
and a lot of these songs were unknown.
And what made it really difficult was is
that this job was actually promised to
somebody else in the company. Um, and
obviously it got out that I got the job
because my dad helped me get the job.
forgetting the fact I already worked
there for 18 months. It just looked like
I was given even though it paid I think
30 quid a week or something. It wasn't
like a high paid job. And uh no one
would talk to me for the first six
months. So I'm like this terrible. So I
locked myself into this room and I just
thought no one's talking to me. I'm just
going to listen to every one of these
terrible country songs. Uh, and I
listened to literally thousands and
thousands of songs over six months,
compiled a list, and then just went out
to all the record labels, met up with
all as many ANR people as I could and
said, I think I've got a great song here
and it will be perfect for one of your
artists. And I did get a lot of the
songs covered.
And you were eight, what, 17, 18 years
old?
I was about probably about 18, 19 at
that point. Um, and then uh my boss
uh said, "I think you're really bright,
Simon. Um, why don't we start a company
together?" Uh, and I was like, "It's a
bit early, isn't it? I'm like 19." And
he said, "Uh,
I've been here for 16 years. Uh, you're
never going to uh make much money. Um,
let's just do it." Uh, I've actually
found he found someone to back us. So, I
met these people. They owned a recording
studio. I had a really really bad
feeling. And I said, I I just I don't
think I can do this. It's too early. I
don't I don't even know what I'm doing
at the moment, let alone run my own
company. And he said, "Well, I think you
better go and meet these people and tell
them that the answer's no." And it was
he did it. Tina, he knew what was going
to happen because I went and they
persuaded me and I and I I know I knew
I'd made a mistake.
So, we started this company. We had
about £40,000
um seed money. Uh our offices were in an
NCP car park. Uh I think it actually
used to be a L
[laughter]
our office. It was just so bad. Um, and
I'm like, "Oh god, what have I done? I
just got this job with EMI and now I'm
working in a loo in a car park and this
is not going to work." Um, and
after about 18 months, I just left
your own company. Was it ENS?
ENS. Yeah.
Ellis and Simon, right?
Yeah. But then I met somebody who was a
manager who managed hot gossip.
Um, and he had a really cool office in
the South Molton Street. And I and I
just really liked him. He was really
funny. And I said, um, can I work for
you? And he went, "Doing what?" I said,
"I want to start a record label." And he
went, "Seriously?" And I said, "Well,
you got this great management company.
Um, I think I I know how to make
records. Um, let's just do it." and he
went, "Uh, I'll pay you
£40 a week." And we agreed on 55. And
I'm like, "Brilliant." And I don't know,
I just suddenly from feeling really this
isn't working to I've really got a
feeling this is going to work.
You were quite naive, weren't you?
Oh, yeah. I mean, seriously naive. Yeah.
because it's like a kid is like trying
to take on the world with like his own
music publishing company which fails in
the car park l and then he goes from
there to I'm going to start my own
record label at what 20 26 25 years old
so you start this record label was is
that fanf fair records
yeah um so um I met Senita in this club
the embassy club which is a brilliant
nightclub um I liked her she liked me
and Uh,
I said, "Oh, I run my own record label."
Nice.
And I thought it's a great pickup line.
And she said, "Oh, I'm an artist." I
went, "Really?"
I said, "Um, have you made any demos?"
And she said, "Yeah." So I said, "Well,
can I can we meet again?" And uh and we
did meet again. And she did play me some
demos. And I said, "Actually, you've got
a really really good recording voice."
Um, and at the time, uh, there was this
particular kind of,
uh, sound, uh, dance music which was
really becoming popular in it was all
originating from, I think, um,
uh, the French part of Canada, uh, where
a lot of these records were originally
made. They were all breaking out of gay
clubs across the UK. Um, and I just had
this idea for Senita, which was she was
so beautiful, so much fun, and I
thought, I know what I'm going to do.
I'm going to make a record with her, and
I'm going to break it through
uh through the clubs across the UK. Um,
and I I just had this crazy idea in my
head for a title. And I said to this uh
guy I met, he hadn't had a hit before.
Um,
uh,
this is Senita blah blah blah blah blah.
Uh, I want a record. This is how I think
I'm going to break it. I want it to be
called So Matcha. And he looked at me
like, right. So we made two records. One
was called So Macho, the other one was
called God, You've Got It. Is the other
side Cruising?
This is the record.
That's it. My god, that's a great
sleeve, by the way.
It's It's fantastic.
Yeah, that's right. So much and
cruising. The problem was is the guy I
was working with um says to me, um,
I'm expanding into book publishing. I'm
like, okay, fine.
Um, so he didn't really take any notice
of what I was doing. And then he said to
me, um,
I've been, uh, a public company, uh, you
know, basically wants to buy my
business, blah blah blah blah blah.
Great. I'm shutting down the record
label. I'm like, are you kidding? I've
just I've just made this record. I think
it's going to be a hit. And he went, no,
I'm shutting it down. And I said,
what does that mean for me? He said,
"Well, you have a job." And I said,
"Look,
you I know you've made a lot of money.
You're probably going to make a ton
more. Do me a favor. Will you just give
me £5,000? I don't want a salary, but
with that money, I will make the video.
I'll get it distributed, blah blah blah,
recorded video, everything." And he
went, "Let me think about it." And I
kept calling him over the weekend and
eventually said, "Okay, fine. 5,000 and
that's it." So I thought okay that I
think should be enough. Um and that
was you know I suppose one of the
biggest turning points in my life. If he
had said no at that point I'm not sure
what I would have done.
What would you have done?
Um I would have hustled it from
somewhere. Um because I really did
believe in this. The minute I heard the
record from I just thought this is going
to be a hit. How'd you know? I
just felt it, you know. I I had a good I
the the funny thing is when I first when
I actually made my first record,
the uh the producer said, "Do you want
to come down to the studio?" And I said,
"No." And he said, "Why?" I said,
"Because I don't want to know how a
record is made." He said, "Why?" He
said, "I because I want to listen to it
as anybody who buys records. If I know
how a record's made, it's going to sound
different to me. So, to this day, I
don't know how a record is actually
made. I don't know how it started. Does
someone play a baseline or keyboard? I
mean, I literally haven't got a clue.
So strange.
Uh because I know it would be an It's
like when people do magic on on my
shows.
I'm not the person who goes, I know how
you did that. I go I believe in magic
and I will literally make myself believe
in magic. Um and with music it was sort
of the same thing which is I don't want
to know too much. I just I don't want to
pretend that I can read music cuz I
can't. I don't want to make uh make
myself believe that I can be a producer
because I probably couldn't be a very
good producer. But I think I could be a
very good ANR person which is find an
artist find them the right song and
then, you know, break the record. And it
took me about a year and a half to break
that record. Um, it was tough.
I just want to pause on that what you
said there about not knowing anything
about music or how a record is made.
What I what I heard there I guess in
between the lines is you want to remain
the listener
and not the creator because you think
it's more valuable to maintain the
perspective of the consumer.
Completely 100% that. I mean you've hit
the nail on the head. This is exactly
that. And also I didn't want to ever,
you know, because I'd met some
successful producers, you know, over the
years, you know, and I I I had this
vision of
because I'd heard stories of ANR people
who went into studios pretending they
understood how to make a record and
hadn't got a clue. In fact, one guy
actually had literally a piece of metal
uh like a train track or something.
Literally a piece of iron and he had it
on his studio wall and he called it the
wacometer because all these idiot ANR
guys used to come in, yeah, don't really
like the mix of the record. And he'd go,
"Yeah, I know exactly what you mean. Let
me just adjust this." And so he would
just pull the lever down and the guys
would go night and day. And I couldn't
think of anything more embarrassing. So
I've always been the first to say, I
don't know how a record's made. I can't
read music. Um I haven't really got a
clue. But I think with I do have a good
ear for a hit or a potential hit.
There's something really transferable to
marketing. I've obviously spent the last
10 years working in marketing and one of
the the most passionate things I've said
on stage a gazillion times to my teams
is trying to get us out of the
perspective of the creator and into the
perspective of the person that's going
to see it out in the world. And I have
to say it is like an impossible task. It
sounds so simple and what you're
describing is
is what I've fought so hard to try and
con convey to people. Well, I think you
can do that if if you believe it
yourself. And and I did have this strong
belief in myself that finally I'd found
something I could do, which was
um make a record, you know, make a
terrible video. Um, and uh, I mean I cuz
obviously we used to have to physically
manufacture the records. So I didn't
have a lot of credit. So I had to do a
lot of deals, you know, with these
people. Look, I'll pay you if you'll
make me 10. I think 10,000 was the
minimum or something. I mean the whole
thing what I had to go through to get
this record into the charts and it was
all about getting it into the top 40.
And it took me three times. First time
it flopped, second time it flopped. And
then what I did uh was I I said to the u
uh warehouse I said what is the problem?
They said, "Well, the record's selling,
but it's not keep selling, Simon, but um
it's not enough to get to get it into
the 40." So, I said, "Well, why don't we
hold the order?" And they said, "Well,
we're not really supposed to do that."
Does that mean uh in other words, just
say it's out of stock um on the
computer, but it's not out of stock.
just don't let them have the record when
they order it. In other words, let's
build up the back orders. So, we built
up whatever the back order was and then
all the people who had ordered a record
3 months ago, four months ago, suddenly
all these records arrived that week
and it worked. It got the record into
the top 40. squeezed in and I got a
breaker on top of the pops and the
record just exploded after that.
Because of circumstances heavily outside
of your control, FanFair Records
collapses um owing the bank $500,000 and
you're left with about £5 in your pocket
and you move back in with your parents
at 30 years old, my age.
Well, it wasn't the label that owed the
money. It was me. um
uh because all of us were encouraged to
buy shares in this company uh because we
were told the company was doing really
really well. So the bank manager was
practically forcing me to borrow money,
you know, because he said the shares are
going to go up in value. Um and at the
same time, um
I thought everything was just going to
be wonderful. So, I bought a house. Um,
I bought a Porsche, of course. Uh, uh, I
had a gold credit card, which no one
explained to me how that works in terms
of the interest rates. Um, so I'm living
it up. Um, and when it all came crashing
down, uh, yeah, I owed the bank nearly
£500,000.
Um, so I had to go in and see the bank
and they had the nice guy and they had
the not so nice guy and the not so nice
guy was, "Okay, where's the money?"
Right. Well, you lent it to me, you
know, where it's just gone. And the
other guy was like, "Yeah, well, you
know, it was partly our fault and blah
blah blah blah blah." So, I said, "Look,
all I can tell you is, uh, if you
bankrupt me, I don't care. Uh, because I
don't have anything. Um, uh, I don't
have a job. Uh, I don't have any income.
I've just got this debt." Um,
what about the Porsche?
What about the Porsche?
It all went the whole lot. Even when I
sold the house, I still owed money on
the mortgage. So, I I I was I was on
paper bankrupt. Yes. So I moved back in
with my mom and dad and that was really
told me what great people they were
because there wasn't one moment where
either of them said you know you failed
or this or that. It was like it's a life
lesson Simon and you'll get over it. Um
and I managed to find a bank amazingly
to lend me cuz I basically I negotiated
the debt down. We worked out what the
interest was over the period of time,
what the capital sum was and then I got
them to half that and I said somehow
I'll pay it back to you. So I found
another bank who just backed me. I just
sold myself and I said look you know I
my first record I ever made went to
number two whatever it was in the charts
sold a million copies. This is what my
career is going to be. Uh what happened
was was out of my control. and he said,
"I don't know. I've got a feeling about
you. Um, I'm prepared to lend you some
money to pay back the other bank, which
meant I didn't become bankrupt." So, I
went uh back to live with my mom and
dad. And it was actually quite an
interesting time because I I remember
and I've told this story a lot is that I
had to get from a particular destination
in the West End to where my parents
lived and I had about £5
cash and I remember thinking it's
literally all the money I've got left in
in the world and I'm not sure the five
quid's going to cover the taxi ride
home. And I think we I know we just
about made it. Yeah. And I said, "I'm
sorry about the tip because I haven't
got any more money." Um it was about 10p
or something. Uh fortunately had a very
very good lawyer guy called Tony
Russell. Um and I said to Tony, um look,
I'm in a not in a great place. I'd met
him actually because he represented
George Michael and he sued me. Uh uh
when I'd made a mega mix of
which we used to do, we used to
literally get in session singers
and say Kylie Mano just record
eight Kylie Manow records with someone
who sounded like Kylie Mano. Mix them.
So we used to call them mega mixes and
they would they'd sell about 10 20,000
copies. is we used to export them all
over the world. I did a wham one. We got
sued by George Michael. That's how I met
my lawyer cuz he was repres representing
George and I said I'd rather you
represent me next time. And he was
brilliant because he said, "Look, I
think Simon, weirdly, what's happened to
you is the best thing that's ever
happened." And I said, "Why?" I said,
"I'm broke. I don't have a job." He
said,
he said, "But you succeeded so far,
Simon, with everything you you've put
out." Because I have had, you know,
success with some other records along
the way. Um, he said, "I think you
should get a label deal, which means
that you own uh part of the company with
a major label." Um, so I'm like, "Okay.
Uh, if you can get me if you can get me
one, brilliant.
And we went to meet two companies in on
the same day uh BMG and Universal. And
literally uh that day
uh at the end of the day Tony calls me.
He said I've had two calls. I mean go on
Universal has said no. I'm like
BMG has said yes. I'm like seriously
there's a caveat. you got one year and
within that one year you got to sell x
amount of records and I'm like I'll do
it and I did and that was kind of how I
got myself back up and running again. By
the way, the other thing I should
mention is I said to Tony um by the way
um I don't have any money to pay you. um
the lawyer
the lawyer. I said, "So, you know, I I'm
not sure I can afford you." And he said,
"Well,
I I believe in you, Simon. I think one
day you will end up repaying me." And
I'll always remember that. Uh and uh
years later, of course, you know, we did
a lot of deals together and
of course, I repaid him. But I mean the
fact that he was there for me at that
moment, I mean that was again a
life-changing moment for me.
There's these people throughout your
story that seem to be so critical um
mentors, people that were there to catch
you when you fell and treated you in a
pleasant way. One of those as well was
Peter Waterman.
You described meeting the day I met
Peter Waterman was easily the most
important day of my career. You said
that in your book. I don't mean to be
rude, but
ah well, it was because um
I I I I realized very very quickly um
that it was unlikely I was going to be
able to sign or find singer songwriters.
So, I was going to have to find artists
who needed songs written for them.
Um so, I needed to find the best pop
writers. um you know, literally in the
world. I heard this record on the radio
and I just thought, "Wow, whoever this
is, this record is brilliantly made. Um
and I found out it was produced by Stock
Acre and Waterman. No one had heard of
them at this point. So I call up and I
said, "Hi, my name is Simon Cowell, blah
blah blah." And can I meet you? And he
went, "Yeah." So, I went down to his
studios and we met. We were sitting on
these literally wooden boxes. The studio
was like a real mess. And I said, "I've
got this um uh record uh I'm about to
put out." And he put on So Macho, took
it off. That's a hit. I went, "Yeah, I
know. Will you produce her follow-up?"
And he went, "No." I said, "What do you
mean no?" I thought I thought I was
doing him a favor. And he went, "Um, I'm
too busy." And I said, "Doing what?" And
literally the place was falling apart.
And he gave me this awful wink. He went,
"You'll see." And then the next 3 to 6
months, the whole Stockhen and Waterman
explosion just happened cuz obviously
Pete had been ma making other records in
the meantime, which no one had heard.
and out of nowhere it all of his records
were just hits. So I thought, okay, I've
got to persuade him to write Senita's
follow-up.
So I just uh used to turn up at his
studio literally every single day and uh
make tea, um sit in the studios, blah
blah blah. And they were so busy they
didn't really notice me. And after about
a year and a half, Pete was in the
studio and he turns around. He go, "Why
are you always here?" And I said, "Well,
I'm trying to work out how you do it."
And he went, "I'm not paying you." I
said, "I I don't want to get paid. I
just I want you to one day write her
follow-up."
And
a few months after that, I was in my
office. I get a phone call. I've got you
hit, mate. and I got in a cab, went down
to his studio and he played me the demo
of Toy Boy and I thought that's going to
be
a gigantic record for her
internationally as well. I could feel
it. Um, and Pete, you know, made
everything cuz Pete again, I mean, Pete
will pretend
unlike me, he'll say, "Oh, of course I
know how to produce records, blah blah
blah." He may do, but Pete's skill is
I've always described Pete as the best
DJ in the world. He would he could go to
any city in England at 1:00 in the
morning and he would know instinctively
what records to play to the audience
that were in that venue. and he made
everything simple which is you find a
great artist and you you match them with
a great pop record and that was it.
When you got that job at BMG, one of the
things that I read was that you were
really focused on television which was
unusual television as an outlet for the
music and as a distribution platform to
make the music successful which is
unusual at that time to think about
television. Why did you think about
television and why were you pushing that
upon your bosses at BMG?
I took the view it [clears throat]
didn't matter to me
uh what the record was as long as it
sold a lot of records.
So
uh I it just occurred to me one day I
forget what it was. It might have been
[sighs] I think it was the wrestling
federation or something. Um, someone
told me they'd sold out uh Wembley
Stadium, you know, the the American
wrestlers in
WWF.
Yeah.
In um 80,000 seats in like 27 minutes.
And I'm like, what? And so I learned a
bit more about them. You know, they're
selling everything. And I'm thinking,
actually, their fans are so crazy about
them, they'll buy a they'll buy an
album. So, I met with them and I said,
"Have you ever considered doing this?"
And they went, "No." And I said, "Well,
I'll
uh pay you X as an advance." I phoned up
Pete Waterman. I said, "How do you fancy
making an album full of wrestlers?" I'll
do it. Instantly, he just got it. And um
we we got all we flew all these
wrestlers over from America. They all
turned up as their characters. It was
hysterical. The Undertaker, Hulk Hogan,
you name it, they were all there. And uh
uh my boss at the time was so desperate
for me not to do this. She actually got
down on her knees, seriously. And was
praying. She said, "Look, Simon, I am
begging you not to do this because it's
going to be such a catastrophic
failure." And I'm like, "Well, I'm doing
it. I just don't see don't understand
why you don't get it.
Um,
have you felt like that a lot in your
career where you feel like you can see
something others can't? Because you're
thinking more from first principles
there. You're thinking they sold out an
arena, they have an avid fan base. We
can attach music to an avid fan base
equals hit.
Yeah, you've summed it up very
eloquently and that is exactly it.
However, and you know this, what is very
straightforward to us is not
straightforward to other people. They're
thinking
you
he's gone completely mad.
I mean, no. But I'm thinking, yeah, but
you're not a sevenyear-old boy, you
know. This is who's going to buy the
record, you know. This is somebody who's
going to buy a board game or bl or, you
know, uh, cereal with the wrestlers on
it, whatever. You know, I did it with
the Power Rangers, Zig and Zang. I I
didn't care as long as it sold records.
Um,
wait for this one.
[laughter]
That's it. It's brilliant. Oh my god, we
had so much fun doing this. We really,
really, really did.
Um
uh and you know what was interesting is
actually when I made the video I I kind
of turned myself into a kid again
because I you sort of have to believe it
for it to work, you know, because I I
treated it as if this was a serious
record. The record had to be a great
record. Doesn't this go back to what you
said earlier on about being able to
embody the listener consumer?
Yeah. Yeah.
Because your boss at the record label
there was saying, "No, this is not how
it's done. This is not what we do here."
Whereas you're thinking again from the
mind of a seven-year-old or an
8-year-old.
And that's hard.
Um Yeah. Well, [clears throat] I didn't
think I I thought logically it made a
lot of sense. I used to sit in these ANR
department um meetings with really
really serious ANR people who would
literally go bright red with anger when
I would play them something like this.
You're making a mockery of this label
and the music business is like, well,
who cares? It's number one in the charts
in 28 countries. Um I just didn't
understand why people would take it so
seriously.
And this sold millions and millions of
copies. You sold millions of copies for
a wrestling album. Yeah,
using a passionate fan base as the
and and and you know what? It was fun.
It actually was a fun project. Um and
when I worked um at BMG, I got to know a
lot of the people in who worked in the
teley sales department. Um, and these
were the girls who would literally get
uh um orders from the record shops and I
got to know all of them and they were
really really fun people and uh but they
were they were like the back
background you know but they were I used
to call them the punters you know they
completely got it and I always used to
say if you hear of anything
just let me know you know if is there a
demand for something. I always just I
just want to know what's going on every
day. And one particular day, uh I said,
"Anything happening this morning?" And
they went, "Yeah, uh we're getting a lot
of calls about um
um something that was sung on Soldier
Soldier last night." So anyway, cut a
long story short, um I tracked down
Robson and Jerome and I said, "Hi, I'm
Simon Cow, blah blah blah." Um, I kind
of got Jerome to say yes. Robson just
wasn't having it. So, I was like a
stalker. I would not let it go. I got
hold of his parents,
uh, everyone, his friends, baby. I mean,
to the point I think I got a legal
letter saying, "Can you stop harassing
my client?" And it's like, "Well,
when he says yes, I'll stop harassing
him." Um, and eventually he agreed to a
meeting. Um, and I'm so excited. Uh, I'm
in the cab going to the meeting and then
I suddenly went, Christ, I don't know
what he looks like cuz I've never
watched the show. Um,
what do I do? So, and we were meeting in
this wine bar or something. So, I just
walk in and I'm like, "Hi, I'm Simon."
And then this hand shot up, Robson. I'm
hi. And we sit down. And I said, "Here's
the deal. I'll pay you both £50,000 each
to go into the recording studio, lay
down your vocals, and if you say no, you
keep 50 grand each." And he looked at me
and he went, "You serious?" I went,
"Yeah."
So,
literally the following day, they said,
"Right, we'll do it." Thinking we're
about to make 50 grand each for a day's
work, and we're never going to put the
record out. So,
uh, I get them in as quickly as possible
and, uh, I get a phone call from Robson.
I want to see you. Oh, dear. So, I walk
in, they've laid down the vocals and I
said, what's the problem? And he goes,
you are a complete c-word. And I went,
why? He said, cuz you knew exactly what
was going to happen, didn't you? And I,
I don't know what you're talking about.
He said, yes, you do. He said, "Put it
on." And they played me the record. And
they both realized at that moment the
record was going to be a hit record. And
that I kind of forced them into doing
it. And they were happy and angry at the
same time. For two years, they were they
were the biggest selling artists in the
UK. I mean, they they outsold Oasis,
everyone. Really? Yeah. It was
absolutely I cannot tell you. We had so
we couldn't make enough records. It we
sold so many records
and this was this particular track was
number one for I think seven or eight
weeks or something.
Yeah, something like that. At
the time went to number one. I mean I
think all their records went to number
one. It was actually quite incredible.
Um and that was probably the thing that
really cemented this thing about my my
career which was
absolutely trust your gut.
um go completely in an unconventional
way. And and that more than anything
else made me realize the power of TV
because it also when I eventually did
see the episode and I saw how it was cut
and the storyline and just how
everything worked and why there was such
a demand for that record. It was wow
that's that's a great lesson. But Simon,
what about if your gut is wrong? Because
you've worked with people that trust
their gut and they're continually wrong
that they just don't have it. They just
don't have it right.
Yeah.
Whether they're musicians or they're
ans, you know, um there'll be a lot of
people listening now that are like,
"Okay, Simon said, trust my taste. Trust
my gut. Just go for it." [laughter]
And then in reality, they, you know,
it's it's a question of like
self-awareness, I guess, which is which
is difficult. Well, I I can relate to
what is happening to a lot of people in
the music business right now, which is
the frustration they must feel, which is
I'm talented.
I've uploaded my music and I'm not
getting anywhere. What do I do next? And
I I know what this that feeling is. And
what I decided to do was why don't I go
with a slightly different direction from
everybody else? I don't want to be part
of the herd. If I follow everyone else,
I'm just going to be a sheep. And I
don't want to be a sheep. I'd rather be
somebody slightly unusual but successful
rather than safe, cool, whatever. So I
always say
particularly today, you've got to make
noise amongst the noise. And that means,
you know, do your research. You know, if
if you're going to cover a song, don't
copy the original. You know, find a song
that could have been written 12 months
ago, but actually was written 30 years
ago.
Uh, and rearrange the song. Do something
different with it. You know, there's so
many things you can do um which are
different to what other people are doing
and because that really is about getting
your the your first step step on the
ladder which is prove that you can make
some noise amongst everybody else. Um
and I do know what that feeling of
frustration felt like. However, it's
also about trusting your gut as well.
When you make noise amongst the noise,
there's a cost. And you talked a little
bit about the cost of that. It's the
skepticism. It's the negativity. It's
the criticism. It's the get back in
line. And a lot of people,
especially if they weren't rebellious
kids that had a problem with authority
and such, can't can't deal with straying
from the conventional path where other
people have walked the blueprint how
things have always been done.
You have to go through the thorns,
through the bushes.
Yeah. Yeah. And
it takes a certain type of rebel, which
one of which is sat in front of me, that
is willing to go through the thorns in
life.
Yeah. And don't be afraid of what other
people say about you for doing that, you
know, because
you know, when people say it's not cool
or whatever, well, who defines what is
cool or what isn't cool? you know it
this is just about you, your career,
uh your passion. Um and if other people,
you know, mock you for being different,
then it I would rather be mocked for
being different than being safe. That
would just bore me. I've been called so
many terrible things from serious people
in the music business, but it just
doesn't really matter. You know, the
most
Did it ever bother you?
Um,
is it a muscle you've had to train?
Do you know the only thing that bothered
me was like I said when I first tried to
get my record played on radio one and I
saw the process and I thought this is an
this this is something I can't change. I
cannot change a stuffy old producers's
mind about liking a record he knows
nothing about. So I have to find a way
to force that person to play the record.
And the way I can do that is to get it
into the charts. So I have to find a way
to get it into the charts that forces
them to play the record on the top 40
countdown. That's always what I had in
my head. Um, in other words, if you
really really believe in it and the
conventional path isn't open to you,
then you've got to go right. Then how do
we navigate a slightly different path um
that eventually gets us what we want?
Let's not go the the obvious route. And
you know the I'm not going to lie, every
time I do anything new, there's always
part of the thrill is it may not work.
Um, and you know, every time I I I film
a series of BGT, AGT, whatever I'm
filming, every year there is one day
where I'm like, it's over. It's over. I
hate the axe. I'm bored. Uh,
uh, that's it. And then the following
day, I'm like, my god, I love this show
so much. I mean, I am so up and down
like that because I I can't fake how I
feel. You know, when when I'm bored,
when I'm miserable, I it really shows. I
I And when I'm happy, then, you know,
I'm happy.
You guys may have heard our most recent
news, the launch of Flight Studio, which
is our brand new podcast and media
technology company. As we scale this new
company, we also need to scale our team.
And my first port of call for hiring
across Flight Studio has been LinkedIn
Jobs who are a sponsor of this podcast.
We're hiring for around 30 to 60 roles
right now. And LinkedIn has been me and
my team's go-to. The platform makes the
hiring process intuitive, smooth, and
super efficient. LinkedIn has helped me
and my team source professionals we
can't get anywhere else. Even those who
aren't actually searching for jobs right
now, but might be open to the perfect
role with us. In a given month, over 70%
of LinkedIn users don't visit other
leading job websites, they visit
LinkedIn. So, if you're not looking on
LinkedIn, you're looking in the wrong
place. So, today I'm giving the Diary of
a CEO community a free LinkedIn job
post. Head to linkedin.com/doac
now and let me know how you get on.
Terms and conditions apply. I've got
another single here. It's a single, but
it's part of an album that
Do you remember this one?
Oh, yeah. Westife. So you're sort of I
think 39 years old. Um and your band
West Life, their album hits number one.
Yeah. And do you know what? This is uh
uh my dad passed away uh right at this
time as well. So this was a real
bittersweet time for me because
my dad, he never knew this, but my dad
was amazing at spotting hit records. You
know, I would play him certain things I
was making.
Oh, bless you.
We're afraid to have him here.
Yeah.
He uh
when I when I first started to have some
success and my records went to number
one, he he was so proud. Um and he again
when I signed this band he said I think
they were going to be huge for you sign
them.
Really?
Yeah. And but this was a really crazy
story about where how we signed the band
because uh Louis Walsh was always
calling me uh uh I've got the best band
in the world. I've got the best in the
world. And I said okay Lou okay
I'll come to Dublin. I went to Dublin.
He showcases this band. I I absolutely
cannot bear them. And I said, "This is
never going to work. They just don't
look right, Louie. I don't think I I
just The answer is no. I think a couple
of them are okay." But you're wrong. And
I said, "Okay, fine. I'm wrong, but I'm
not signing them." And then 3 months
later, he calls me and he goes, "Um,
I've taken your advice. Uh, would you
fly back?" And I'm like, "Okay." So, I
fly back.
Uh, they start the showcase for me.
Within 30 seconds, I said, "I'm in.
Done. Uh, you'll hear from my lawyer. Do
you want to hear anymore?" "Nope. I I
can see it. They sound great. They look
great." Blah, blah, blah. We sign them.
And then a month later, it turns out
that he has dyed one of the guys hair
blonde to sneak back into the band. Uh,
and that's Shane because when when we uh
auditioned them the second time, they
all had blonde hair. I don't know why
that made a difference, but uh it it's a
typical Louis story. Um,
they still succeeded though.
They did fantastically well. Yeah. And
in fact, I think we still have the
record of
uh for I think it was their first
seven singles went to number one and I
don't think that's ever happened again.
You described that moment as as
bittersweet. Um in your book I I read
that you called home to tell your sort
of family that
Yeah.
this album had gone to number one.
And the [clears throat] news that you
got back was that your father had passed
away from a heart attack. Yeah. Yeah. I
I went to Germany to this um big
conference and um uh you know I I did
quite a big presentation on on the group
and and the reaction in the room was
huge and so and I I I I also was hearing
the record was really selling and uh and
I called and I could just tell something
wasn't right
And
I I think someone said to my mom, "Don't
tell Simon while he's there." And then I
phoned back and she told me and I'm
like, "God, I can't believe it." Cuz I
genuinely at that point in my life, I
just believed my parents were going to
live forever. I mean, it was that
um and yeah, it was
it was tough.
Um,
however,
I do believe in God and I do believe um
uh cuz the hardest thing when you lose
your parents is you you can't even think
about them afterwards because it's too
difficult, you know, everything is. And
then after a while it's like when I have
a question in my mind I do talk to them
in my mind what would you do and I know
what they would say. So that that I
really do still believe they're with me,
but that was very bittersweet moment,
you know, um and and probably, you know,
that, you know,
I would have swapped everything. I'd
succeeded, you know, take kept him
around, you know. Um
uh
and all the things that you know he
taught me over the years, it all just
you know
I it was the longest trip home from
America. You know that that fly it was
it was bad.
It's a credit to the man.
Yeah.
And you know, like I said, look, thank
God, you know, he he he was very wise
and he he did give me a good steer. Um,
and
like I said, a lot of things I still do
now. I still think of what would my dad
say, you know, uh because he only lost
his temper with me once and boy when he
lost it. It was like I don't want to go
there again. But, you know, he he never
hit me. He you nothing like that, you
know. But he raised his voice once at me
and that was enough, you know. But he
was very when he was angry you knew it.
Um, but I also, you know, I think he
would have got a real kick out of seeing
me on a TV show. I know he would have
just found the whole thing really,
really funny.
He didn't see you on a TV show.
No, no, no. Um, that came a few few
years later. Um,
uh, but, you know, at least,
uh, he'd seen me, you know, succeed, you
know, and that meant as much to him. I
know as it did to me.
Does the the purpose and the meaning of
all the work you're doing change when
you lose someone who was so central to
um why you are where you are? I'm
thinking about your your the sort of
immediate
people often describe they understand
the nature of what their priorities
should have been in their life when they
experienced the loss of a parent because
you're right. We grew up and even now
it's almost like I think my parents are
going to live forever.
Yeah. It
hasn't crossed my mind. I'm living my
life as if they're going to live
forever. Yeah. Yeah. Well, like I said,
having gone through, you know, which was
no question in my losing, you know, both
my parents was the hardest thing that
ever happened to me. But I can sit here
and honestly look you in the eye now and
say
cuz everyone says, you know, when you
lose them, you know, in time it'll get
better. And you think, no, it won't. And
the truth is it does as long as you
believe. And you have to believe that
their presence is still there with you.
And I do genuinely believe that with my
mom and dad. And um
Oh gosh.
Okay.
Um
my mom um
uh you know she started to get dementia
but you know fortunately you know saw
Eric she really wanted me to have a kid
and she brought him this um uh brown
blanket it and uh [snorts] he still has
it
literally
everything is about the brown blanket,
you know, where's where's my brown
blanket? And he said to me,
uh, when he was about 2 or three after,
you know, she passed away, he says, he
just looked up, uh, at the sky one night
and he said, I'm thinking about
uh, Grandpa Eric and Julie. And it was
just the way he said it. It was like,
gosh, why would you say that now? and
and that's when I genuinely really
started to believe they are still
somehow with us. You know, it's it's
it's not a total loss.
Um
and I think you know maintaining that
amazing relationship with both of them
you know up until the point both of them
passed away they were my best friends
you know uh I could tell them anything
we could talk about anything and you
know it's it's how I feel for Eric you
know it's just that pure love you know
they just want the best for you And in
return, do you feel the same about them?
And it's how I feel about Eric. You
know, it's everything starts to become
full circle. Thank God. You know,
you described the loss of your father um
in an interview in your book where you
said it put everything into perspective.
All the things I thought were important,
chart positions, doing showcases with
the band, and everything else, none of
it meant anything any more.
Yeah, it's true.
Really?
Yeah. Genuinely. Um
uh I can say that because of course I I
really really enjoyed every successful
moment of my career. Even when things
haven't gone quite to plan, there's
still a story, you know, or something to
be learned from it.
that combined joy versus the devastation
you feel when you lose someone. It's
there is,
you know, it's it's it really is
meaningless.
Your life really seemed to change
drastically when Eric was born.
Yes. I think that's even like a bit of
an understatement because
yeah,
when I speak to your team about
Simon Pre, Eric,
they describe a man that is a workaholic
to say the least. I was reading about
you staying up till 8:00 a.m. in the
morning frequently to work and
just this absolute obsession with detail
and working Sunday, Saturday,
Yeah.
calling people at all hours. Um,
pre Eric Simon, give me a true
reflection of that man. If I was a fly
on the wall in his life, what was what
was I seeing every day?
Well, I think particularly when I lost
my mom, um, uh, I just was on a downward
spiral at that point, you know. It was
like uh I've lost
everyone
you know you know I I've lost my my my
parent this finality now and what I said
about
the material things I've got everything
just meant nothing at that point I I was
desperately unhappy um I wasn't
particularly enjoying my work and I just
thought you know what I'm just gonna
become a vampire
and and I would work through till 7:00
8:00 in the morning. Um I would wake up
at 2 or 3 in the afternoon and I
actually got addicted to that kind of
lifestyle which was I just loved the
intensity of of it was almost like
because of the the loss I'd had, I've
got to find something else to fill it.
And it was I'm just gonna become a
ridiculous workaholic. And it and I was
very successful, but I wasn't happy. Uh
really really wasn't happy. Um
uh and but it was like
the the expression is this as good as it
gets. That's how I felt. there were
certain people in my life at that point
giving me advice who would just
shouldn't have been in my life. Um
and
uh and then when I got the call from
Lauren which starts any call which
starts with are you sitting down you
know what's coming next. It was like are
you sitting down?
Yes.
Well, and she told me and yes, it did uh
uh absolutely uh change change
everything in my life. I mean, it it
made me happy again. For me, it was
perfect because, you know, like I we
were talking earlier on about our
childhoods, you know, it was just
brilliant. It's like fantastic. I
remember the first time I watched Jungle
Book with him and I'm looking over and
seeing the joy he had watching that
movie. It was like, oh my god. But I
remember how I felt when I saw The
Jungle Book.
He saved you in many respects, didn't
he?
Without question. Without question.
Yeah. I I really really had reached the
point where nothing mattered. Even to
the point where I almost can't even
remember everything from that period. It
hit me so hard. I was like, cuz the the
hardest thing also was being on
television as well. Uh because I'm like,
God, I feel like a clown here, you know,
because I'm dying inside. And yet, you
know, I've still got to, you know, do
what I'm being paid to do, you know, uh
as best as I could, but you know, I I
put on a ton of weight. Uh I was eating
just junk. Um, it was like if I had got
hit by a bus the following day, well, I
I'd be dead, but I wasn't worried about
anything like that, you know.
Was there a darkest day in that period
that you record?
Yeah. The whole the whole time was dark.
Yeah. Um, I can absolutely relate to uh
when people reach the lowest levels, you
know, you possibly can where
essentially, you know, being alive
doesn't matter anymore, you know,
because you just go, what have I got to
live for?
Did you have those thoughts?
Yeah. Yeah. Not not thinking I want to
take my own life but thinking if I if if
if if
something terrible happened I it
wouldn't bother me you know to myself
what I what I have learned fortunately
is unfortunately we are all going to go
through this and it's how we cope with
it and being able to talk about it you
know I mean I've spoken you know
publicly about mental health
particularly men's mental health because
there's no question uh I've had I do
still suffer from depression at times.
I've really suffered from depression in
the past. Um I am actually very
thin skinned at times. Uh uh
particularly when someone
is disloyal, you know that I I take
things like that very very badly. I
noticed this because I read it's
interesting. I I read um I was reading
loads of articles and loads of things
trying doing all this research and the
word loyalty came up over and over and
over again as something you would say
sometimes in interviews as being really
critically important to you.
Yeah.
I was thinking why is of all the people
I've interviewed, why is loyalty the
word that he uses when he describes
artists he's worked with and bands and
Louis Walsh.
Yeah. Lou, I watched an interview where
Lou Walsh said um the thing Simon loves
about me is I'm loyal.
Yeah. Um
uh because of um
you know a lot of what we spoke about
today, you know, my upbringing, my
working life, you know, nothing was ever
handed to me on a plate, you know. So,
um, but when people took the time, you
know, like Pete Waterman,
um,
that, you know, there have been
fortunately a lot of people over the
years who've been amazing, have come in
and helped me achieve because I could
never have done what I did without, you
know, the people who worked with me over
the years. I've just been very lucky in
the main. 99% of the people have been
just fantastic. Um, however, uh, I I
yeah, I take it really [laughter] badly
when someone who you consider to be a
friend rewrites the narrative afterwards
and they become
uh because things haven't worked out for
themselves, they have to blame somebody
else. Right.
And it's like,
but we're all in that position, you
know. Um, there's certain things I can't
talk I would talk to
privately
privately about why that particular time
some other people I was working with um
look again on the bright side, as long
as you're happy today, which I am, thank
God, and I'm I'm at peace today, thank
God. Um then then
a lot of the bad things that happened
previously,
it's like well
that that's your destiny, you know. Uh
if if the lights had been red instead of
green on a certain day, Eric may not
have been conceived. And that's how I
look at life. You know,
your your new work life balance. Um I
found it quite interesting. You've put
some a lot of sort of parameters and
boundaries in place in this new with
this new post Eric Simon Cow. Some of
which are you know you don't work
Fridays.
I read that.
Not really. No.
Not really. Okay. [clears throat] Um you
don't engage in emails after sort of
5:30 6 p.m. Really?
Never.
Interesting.
Never have social media.
I I have it but I don't look at it.
Okay. So, how do you stay awake when you
log on your phone?
Well, you know, I don't have a phone.
You don't have a phone at all?
Well, I have a car phone which I
occasionally use. Um, which is actually
an American phone. I And I swear I don't
even know how to use it.
So, you don't have a mobile phone?
Uh, I have one that sits in the car.
Okay.
Uh, nine times out of 10, um, I'll use
somebody else's phone because I don't
even know how to work anymore. Uh, I
hate them so much because I tell you
why. I think they're boring. It's it's
almost like for me it's like having a a
toaster with you all the time. It's like
it's a toaster and a phone is just as
boring, you know? It's like toast is
nice and occasionally a telephone call's
nice but not all the bloody time.
When did you make that decision to get
rid of your phone?
When I realized by
not being on it for about 3 or 4 months
a year, I was happier at that time. Um,
and then when it was like, "Oh god, it's
time to turn my phone back on." I start
to dread it. And then one day, uh, I
thought I'd lost it and it's, "Oh god,
I've lost my life." And it's, "Oh, stop
being so dramatic. It's a stupid
telephone." Um, I don't use 99% of the
things on it. Um, and I actually
really like talking with people like
we're talking now. I like meeting people
and I like talking from a landline if I
have to because the sound's nicer as
well.
I think people would be pretty shocked
to hear that Simon Cal doesn't have a
phone because you've got this like
business empire you have to run. You've
got all these people, these artists,
these TV, you know, all these things.
How do you navigate like my I'd have
some like I'd have like an existential
crisis if someone told me that I had to
get rid of my phone because I think well
my business is going to crumble or or
obviously it depends what what you do.
Um, for what I do, weirdly it kind of
helps because
um,
you hear about the important things in
life. [clears throat]
You you don't hear about the unimportant
things and that's the best way I suppose
describing the advantages. So when
something really serious happens within
seconds you'll hear about it. when it's
just some piece of gossip or something
which I'm really not interested in uh
and someone said did you hear about so
and so it's like no and I'm not
interested um because I'm not
so someone has to get hold of you how do
they contact you
I always say honestly if you want to get
hold of me and you know me you'll you'll
get hold of me you just [laughter] will
promise you really will you will get a
hold of me Um uh look I obviously you
know I I I have um a PA um I have a
partner um I have friends um
how does she get hold of you?
Uh she calls me at home and I mean it
drives her crazy but [laughter]
uh
what what would you say to the
workaholics out there including me that
haven't quite yet had life teach us the
hard way? [laughter]
Oh my god, I don't know where to start.
Like, what would you say to Simon at 31
years old, which is how old I am?
Simon at 31. Well, I would say
work out
genuinely
from from the the good things that have
happened.
How much time are you spending time
where your gut is telling you this isn't
worth the effort and but your ego is
sort of saying but it's your idea so it
must work. There are always going to be
moments where you have made the wrong
decision and sometimes it's bailing out
earlier than you should uh rather than
just let's just hang on to that or um
also understanding that certainly when
you're doing something creative uh I
believe that you can only really be
creative when you're not tired. I'm
certainly at my best when I've slept
well. Um I'm feeling fit.
um I'm feeling happy. Um then I'm in a
completely different mindset. You know,
I I would because I still uh see each
episode before it goes out about three
or four times. So don't forget these
episodes are about the length of a
movie.
So
I'm watching the equivalent of two
movies a week
uh every second, every sound queue,
every audience shot. I mean, it's the
the the the focus you've got to give it.
It's unbelievable. Um, so I think I
would have said, you know what, Simon,
why don't you enjoy what you're doing a
little bit more? Um, is the fifth day
going to really make a difference if
you're working better on the four days?
It's not really going to make any
difference is the truth. Uh, by the way,
it's much more fun having a three-day uh
weekend than a two-day weekend. Um, and
um,
it's just stuff like that, I suppose.
Did you used to think that if other
people weren't working at the same
tenacity as you, they weren't as
interested or they, you know, cuz I'm
thinking about how you now interact with
the people you work with, if back then
you're working till 8:00 a.m. in the
morning, I imagine you're dragging a lot
of people with you.
YES, I WAS.
[laughter]
GREAT laugh about it so far. [gasps]
Yeah, I I I I did drag a few people
along with me. Um and I apologize. Um
having said that, one thing you can't
escape is that to be good at anything,
you got to put the hours in. It is hard
work. I mean, look, yes, people win the
lottery. You hear about these crazy
success stories, but they are one in
literally a billion. I mean, for me, the
majority of people I've met, uh, who
haven't inherited anything, but have
just built something on their own,
they've done it because they're they're
talented, they've got great instincts,
and importantly, they have really really
put the hours in. Uh because if somebody
you know comes to work for me at say 21
years old and says you know 5:30 right
I'm off and don't bother calling me on
the weekend I'm going to go well I I'm
not going to bet the house on you you
[clears throat] know uh I when I was
younger genuinely I didn't even think
about weekends. It was like um when I
was a runner, you know, I would do 18our
days and loved every second of it
because for every day I was doing it, I
was learning something more. Um, and
then I think you know there is a point
where
when hopefully you realize that you've
kind of got your groove, you know what
you're doing, you're being successful,
you got a good team around you, then I
think it's a question of okay, well then
don't kill yourself in the process. Um I
mean seriously um uh find uh and this is
you know going back to what uh to phones
you know which is and I'm the same with
emails is if even if it's great news um
and and you get the news at 7 8:00 at
night you can't just go right I'm going
to sleep now because your brain's going
to go into overdrive and I think you
know getting Good sleep is crucial.
Absolutely crucial. Uh you hear about
these people who survive from 4 hours
sleep at night like how you know I need
like 10 hours if possible. I really
believe that sleep is the best medicine
your body can have and the ability to be
able to sleep peacefully you know uh
that's really really important. Imagine
if old Simon had you say that.
He'd be like, "Yeah, right. [laughter]
You said don't kill yourself in the
process." But
2020, you had a very very serious
accident. Yeah. Which was unfortunately
at the time of the pandemic, so we're
all trapped inside anyway. You were on a
electric motorbike where you had an
accident and broke your back in three
places. You had a very intense 6-hour
surgery which included having a metal
rod put into your back to stabilize it.
Um, and according to all the accounts
that I've heard, you were very lucky to
be alive.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
Actually, yeah. Uh, it was pretty bad.
Um,
I think that's an understatement from
what I've heard.
Uh, again, there is a silver lining. Uh,
because
I wasn't fit prior. I thought I was fit.
I looked okay, but I wasn't fit. Uh I I
was really getting up, even though I
changed my hours, I was still getting
up, going straight to the telephone, and
I would sit by that telephone for hours
and hours and hours, and I really wasn't
getting the steps in. I wasn't eating
properly, and all this kind of stuff.
Um, so once I um, you know, I I I it was
a bad accident and I knew it was bad the
second it happened. Uh, and and the
recovery was pretty difficult. However,
the I had a fantastic nurse and she
literally she was like, you know, you
know how a cuckoo just pushes the bird
out. Mhm.
She just one day said to me, "Just get
out into your garden. You can walk 20
paces. Just do it." And I did it. And it
was hard. And then I just built up,
built up, built up. And then I started
to build up my step count over time. And
then when I really had to put the proper
steps in per day, my feet were just like
for like ragged because they weren't
used to walking. So, it was weird. If I
if I had to go back in time again to get
to where I am today, I would have gone
through that again. As bad as it was,
the upside was worth it because if I
hadn't broken my back, I don't think I
would have ever realized how unfit I
really really was. you spoke about
because the pandemic is an interesting
time to have a like debilitating injury
like that because you're trapped inside
as it is. When you have a back injury or
any severe injury like that, you're
immobilized.
Yeah.
And all of this has a really significant
impact on your mental health because
I've sat here with people who have had a
back injury like Craig David. I remember
him telling me the darkest depression he
had in his life was when he injured his
back and couldn't move much anymore.
Yeah.
And how that has a knock-on effect of
all things. But then you have the
pandemic as well which is keeping you
indoors. And I heard you were
[clears throat] you're in inside for a
long period of time because of that
injury, because of the pandemic. Um, you
stayed in your your house there for a
long time. Was it almost a year or
something crazy?
Really? Yeah.
What was if I was a fly on the wall in
in that house during that time? What
would I have seen? Well,
again, the hard really the hardest thing
was uh uh because you know the guy had
to it got so bad I had to sign a form
you know just before I had the operation
which was you know if this doesn't work
out uh will you allow us to switch the
machine off? I'm like well that's
encouraging just before I'm about to go
under. Um, so I'm thinking, God, this
could be that's this could be it. Um,
but I was in so much pain. I was just
thinking, just please, please just get
me out of this pain. And and it
the first three days afterwards, I was
like, actually, it's painful, but not as
bad as I thought. And the doctor said,
"Yeah, you've got pain receptors in
[clears throat] your spine right now.
They're going to wear off in a couple of
days. Get ready." And when they wore
off, it was like, whoa. It was
unbelievable. Um, and then
I'm on all these uh painkilling drugs,
blah blah blah. And do you know what I'm
doing? I'm phoning [clears throat] my
lawyer
saying, "Where's my will?" And then I'm
also trying to sell a show at the same
time. Unfortunately,
um, my my PA knew I was just all all
over the place. and she was saying, "Um,
yeah, the person you're trying to get
hold of isn't available right now, but
you know, obviously I was just so
delirious. I was just all over the place
for the first 3 days because after
traumatic injury like that, you are."
But I had a fantastic surgeon. Um, uh, I
really got off the painkillers, uh, much
earlier than, uh, they thought I would,
like a month earlier, and that was for
me really significant. And then when I
started to put the steps in and getting
up to 20 30,000 steps a day without my
feet falling apart, it was like actually
it was worth it. Genuinely worth it.
Is this when you first went to therapy
around this time?
It was. Yeah. And and I think it was
probably because it
after that injury
um and all the time I'd had to think
about things, I really had a chance to
kind of really think things through and
go
uh
it it would be actually crazy for me not
to go to therapy after everything I've
gone through um and talk to somebody who
is an expert.
who you can trust, um, who can advise
you, and it's a bit like really going to
the gym, you know, it's like, wow, you
feel great afterwards and it's, you
know, you think initially, oh, it's
going to be a bit embarrassing. How do I
start the conversation? But they're so
they're so good and they're so well
trained at what they do. It gave me
I don't know. It just made me feel
better in so many ways because stuff
that used to bother me I would talk to
them about and and you almost kind of
get the answer. You know it's going to
be but someone needs to tell you
other than yourself if that makes sense.
You know the answer but you kind of need
someone to validate it.
Yeah.
Um
did you go to the the I've been to
therapy. I've also been to therapy with
my partner. Do couples therapy every
week.
Yeah, I've done that.
Which is really useful.
Yeah. My my god, hours would make the
best reality show [laughter] on the
planet. Keep thinking.
It's a good idea.
Seriously.
Um, what was the when you went to the
therapist, was it because of how you
were feeling following the the back
injury and the pandemic? Or was it just
more broadly that you hadn't processed a
lot of things throughout the last couple
of decades? Was there a specific issue
you went with?
That's a good question. I I think I I
met a few people who had who were in the
entertainment business and we spoke a
lot about how do you deal with this? How
do you deal with that? And they all well
two people in particular said we went
into therapy and and they said do have
you tried it and I went no they said try
it once see how how you feel. And when I
went, it was very interesting because
what you realize is that most of us have
actually bottled stuff up, you know,
somewhere in our bodies and it's like a
release and and we all need that release
cuz there's something in your brain
which you haven't spoken about or
something that's bothered you and you
don't know who to talk about or
whatever, whatever, whatever. And
actually, it's not a weakness. If
anything, it's the strength to be able
to admit that we are all vulnerable,
that we're none of us are perfect, that
we do need help, and there are people
much smarter than us who can just help
you. And why not take advantage of that?
Because I promise you, I don't believe
there's a single person in the world who
would go to a great therapist and then
walk out and go, "Yeah, I didn't need
that."
But we [laughter] all do, right?
uh in the same way we're discovering
things about nutrition and you know uh
food and the importance of that and you
know a lot of what we were talking about
social media and some of the
negativities all these things you know
we we're not programmed I don't believe
to deal with so much so so quickly
so we've got to find you know different
ways of um not just sorting your bodies
out but sorting your your your your
mental
you know, it's not even mental health.
It it's just life, you know, it's that,
you know, just having someone who's
trained
to to to
give you better priorities, other things
to think about, things you don't have
forgotten about. All those kind of
things I learned through doing it.
Has it had a big impact on you?
Massive. Yeah. Massive. Yeah. And in
fact, I I got out of the habit only
because of my schedule. And I'm due
back, I think, in about two or three
weeks time. And I literally can't wait.
Um because I I I really do think I found
someone special. His name I His name's
Justin. Uh if he's listening, Justin,
you are the best.
Uh I adore you. Um and he's I I consider
him, you know, a friend. I I really
really like him and respect him.
Sometimes we don't get to say to people
how much we appreciate them and all the
impact we've had on them until they're
gone
because especially as men sometimes we
can be a little well I'm just speaking
for myself here I can uh
I can feel a little bit I think how I
was raised a little bit about expressing
my emotions sometimes.
Yeah. So Justin for example, what would
you say to Justin as in terms of how
he's helped you if he was listening?
I think he he if we had a list of what's
the most important things, the top 10
list of priorities.
He's changed the order
of what would have been my one to 10.
He's shuffled the order. So something
that might have been number eight might
have become number three now. Um, and
he's simplified my way of thinking,
which is sim he said to Simon, I think
you actually overthink a lot of things,
by the way. And I'm like, actually, you
got a point. I do, actually. Uh, and um,
a lot of what, you know, we've been
talking about today,
a lot of this has come from working with
Justin um, and and like I said, having
absolute no embarrassment. whatsoever
about the fact that I needed it. Um, I
think uh,
like I said, a lot of people in my
opinion do need help full stop at some
point in their lives and it is nothing
to be embarrassed about. It It isn't.
Eric comes to you and says, "Dad, you've
built an incredible business. You've
been incredibly successful. Dad, I need
some advice. I want to be successful in
my career, too. I'm planning on doing
something special, which I don't know
what what it is yet, Dad, but I want to
be successful in when I uh go into the
professional world. What do I what what
advice would you give me, Dad? Um based
on the career you've had, what are those
foundations, those fundamentals? I'm
going to say to him,
be good at what you do and therefore be
patient and learn. and the learning and
the getting there is as enjoyable as
being there because in my opinion it is
having gone [laughter] through both
sides. Uh I've been at my happiest when
I'm broke. I've been at my unhappiest at
times when I've been wealthy and I've
also been happy when I've been
successful. Um uh the most important
thing is on a Sunday night you want that
feeling of excitement that Monday is
coming and it's something to look
forward to uh and that this is what
we're supposed to do in our lives is do
something which we enjoy and it's not a
question of
having more than other people or less.
It's it's irrelevant. There's always
people who are less than you and more
than you. That's not really the the
measure of of of your happiness. Your
happiness stems from achieving
something, believing in something. Um,
and just loving what you do. I'm very
lucky because I still love what I do. I
mean, yes, there are times I'm like,
"God, this is a long day today." or you
know it hasn't been a great day but
overall I pinch myself still because I'm
I'm fortunate enough that I I'm able to
do something which I really really love
doing. I I love creating things. I love
thinking of things and I also like
the idea that somehow I'll make it
happen and even if it takes me 10 years
if I still have that strong belief
somehow I'll try and make it happen and
if it doesn't quite work out at least I
can say well I gave it a shot. I'd also
say to him don't blame other people if
it doesn't work out. you know, you have
to trust your instincts and you have to
have a strong work ethic. Um but enjoy
that and that's why you know as I said
finding something which you're
passionate about is is for me it's the
most important thing more than anything
else because like I said you know going
back to the time when I was in the post
room and an estate agent you know I
loved being in the mail room a thousand
times more than being an estate agent.
It just, you know, it was a great
example, you know, uh when I, you know,
changed jobs to make more money, it
actually made me more unhappy, uh
because I didn't like the people, you
know, hated the job. I'm not saying all
estate agents are bad, by the way. This
particular company at the time, they
might be all right now, were awful then.
Um but um that's what I think uh I would
say to anyone I like uh or didn't like.
Uh you know, find your passion and then
try and be the best at it.
Legacy.
Legacy. Yeah.
That's been front of mind for you
recently, hasn't it?
Yeah. Yeah. It is a lot. Yeah. Um, and
to your point, you know, when you are
when we're doing something like this or
something I've made in the past, I'm
always aware
or if I'm editing a clip on a on a great
contestant, I'm very aware that that is
their legacy as well, and I want to make
that clip like perfection in my mind,
you know. I want every second of it to
be beautiful and cinematic, you know,
and because they live on life online
forever, these clips now. Um but yeah,
legacy is I I think about this a lot
definitely. And I think um
somewhere
I read it was a great quote about I I'm
going to say this really badly, but it's
along the lines of if you live your life
with your eyes open wide enough, you
will eventually find the person you're
looking for, i.e. my Pete Waterman, you
know, because don't think
certainly when you're younger that
you've got all the smarts to do it
yourself, you know, being smart is
finding the person who is smarter than
you, who is willing to take you under
their wing. Um, but to get that person
to take you under their wing, you've got
to show them, I'm prepared to put the
work in as well.
And if you could
paint the picture of your own legacy,
the legacy that Eric will remember of
Simon Carl, what was what is that legacy
that you would like to leave him with
and I guess the world with?
Oh, well,
[sighs]
I think uh
I like people. I mean, I genuinely like
people. I remember being about 6 years
old and seeing somebody um I think it
was the ideal home exhibition
and uh I went, "Oh my god, it's so and
so. I'm completely starruck." And I just
went over, "Hi, can I have your
autograph?" And he went, "No." And I was
like I was destroyed.
And and I I I have never ever said no to
somebody. It drives Lauren and even Eric
sometimes crazy cuz I don't care in the
middle of dinner or whatever I'm doing
if someone wants a picture, an
autograph, I'll I'm always say yes
because I take it as a compliment, you
know, because it's uh they watch
something I've made and and I also know
in reverse what it feels like
um if someone's rude to you. Um because
if that's if if if you don't like
people, you can't do this job. Um so I
hope my legacy will be that, you know, I
I kind of achieved everything,
you know, without a head start and I've
treated people well. I I that's what I
would like to think I'll hand over to
Eric. Both of those things. Although you
have changed your life in many ways,
pretty extreme extreme ways, very
extreme ways from the sort of the
pre-Eeric Simon to the post Eric Simon
who has put boundaries and balance in
place and is focusing more, you know,
you talked about that priority list of
10 things with your therapist. Um it's
quite clear in everything I've I've read
that number one priority right now is
the family.
Yeah.
And everything is secondary to that.
That's accurate, right? It's accurate.
Yeah. Yeah, it is. Um but I think um
what concerns me a lot at the moment is
um and I hope things are going to change
is that I do see bullying on the rise.
Um and uh and I think that is uh partly
due well actually a lot to do with
social media. Um, I do see unfortunately
people unhappy because they think they
need material things in their life to
make them happy. And look, of course,
it's it's better to have money than not,
but it's not everything. And, you know,
like I said, I can genuinely say that
because I've I've experienced both.
I preferred it when I had money, but I
it wasn't the end of the world when I
didn't, you know, and um
so I I just
I get sad a lot of the times when I
think about people who think, well, you
know, I'm not great at school, so what
am I going to do with my life? Or I need
everything by the age of 21 and or blah
blah blah blah blah. It's like actually,
you know what? It doesn't have to be
that way. you know, if you really really
do have the patience and like I said,
the you might have a friend who's got a
more flashier job and blah blah blah,
but if you if you're in it for the long
hall, you're going to be better off at
the end. You know, it's trying to get
that message to people, you know.
I was just thinking then about um One
Direction. In fact, I'm friends with uh
some of the boys. boys. I say some of
the boys, one of the boys from One
Direction and they How do you How do you
like make them ambitious but at the same
time make them [laughter] not lose their
mind because because I sat with Liam and
he was he was on the podcast and he's he
talked about his struggles
struggling with all of these things the
the change in his life. We all wish and
dream for that.
Yeah.
But then the reality is something that
no one can be prepared for.
Yeah.
The brain is not set up in such a way to
deal with that amount of hysteria
around you. So, has your thoughts around
this changed or evolved based on your
own experiences as Simon and the things
you've been through?
Well, uh,
personally, I think it's better to have
success than not.
Yeah.
Um, what is great, uh, I mean, what I
said to the boys, and you know, it was
quite obvious, you know, once they were
on the show, they were going to be
really, really successful with the right
records. I mean, they just for me, they
were like the the perfect group.
Are they the most successful artist
you've ever developed?
Oh gosh, I I actually don't know the
answer to that. No. I mean, I know they
were very successful. They sold a lot of
records. Um
Okay.
And they made a lot of money. Um uh I
said to them a lot of what we're talking
about which is
don't ever complain about paparazzi
because they are going to take your
pictures. Um don't complain about
invasion of privacy because people are
going to always want a picture taken
with you. Um don't complain about the
long hours because there are going to be
long hours. Um so if if none of this if
any of this is a problem just do
something else. I mean, because I
promise you, all of this is going to
come with it. There'll be times where
you're going to go, "My god, this is a
grueling schedule." And oh my god, what
can't someone just leave me alone for
one minute? Because I want I want I when
I have my dinner, uh, why are you taking
my picture? That is going to come with
the territory. And the truth is, it's
worth it. It's a very very very It's not
even a price to pay. It's just comes
with it. It's hard work. You are going
to become well known. Um, and uh, you
are going to lose a lot of your privacy.
If you want to be an accountant, you're
not going to have any of those issues.
It just won't be as much fun. [laughter]
So, you know, some people want to be
accountants, some people want a more
exciting life. Um, I've always been a
huge fan of bands because
it's a much easier way. Uh, first of
all, I think it's more fun being in a
band than being a solo artist.
Yeah.
Uh, particularly if you like your
bandmates. Um, it's a brilliant way to
get noticed if you want to become uh a
successful solo artist like they've all
become. Um, and being in the band was
the catalyst to that. You know, I'm
about to do it again this year. Yes, I
heard about this. You're searching for
another boy band.
Yeah. And I'm doing it because, you
know, right now there isn't
I don't think a band who has been as
good as One Direction since One
Direction.
um in my opinion. Um and if you look at
the amount of solo artists versus bands
right now in the world in pop music, it
is unbelievable. I mean, if you think of
Mottown and that whole era, it was as
many bands as there were solo artists.
So, something uh has gone a miss. And
the only way I
know to put a band together is somebody
has to audition them. So, we just
thought, you know what, if I don't do it
this year, I'm going to really regret
it. So, let's just do it. Um, and we're
going to document the whole process. So
this time uh you're going to see exactly
what happens
uh from the minute we go we're going to
do it to how you logistically do it. How
do you choose the people? Blah blah
blah. Uh because I think it will be
interesting and and but there's no
safety blanket on this in terms of I
haven't gone to a record label and go
and say right I'm doing this. Will you
guarantee me a record deal? I've got to
hope that the band are good enough to
get a record deal.
What's the secret source?
[laughter]
People I mean it is personality. I mean,
I think that's [clears throat] the one
thing about One Direction is they all
had great personalities and they were
just interesting people and as uh the
first time I saw them uh as a band uh
after we asked them to be in a band, I
was in Spain and I saw them walking up
the beach and as they're walking up the
beach, everyone's looking around. No one
had ever heard of them at this point and
I thought, "This is unbelievable.
everyone's looking at these five boys as
if they're already stars and there was
some there was just this glow about
them. Um, and because you know I've had
hits with bands, I've had misses with
bands and it could be that I was 1% off
or I was 80% off. I don't know. U but
when it doesn't work you the there's no
there's no money in the world that will
make something that isn't going to work
work. M
um it's just one of those things you you
just got to hope you get lucky and find
the right people.
Have you got better at
I don't know. [laughter]
It could be that I'm completely useless
now. Um all I know is if I had to trust
anyone to do it, I would trust me more
than anyone else. I would.
And are you waiting for a feeling? Is it
like or is there like some kind of data
in AI and some Excel spreadsheet that
ranks them based on you know these
things? Is it a feeling?
Yeah, it it it has to be. Um and this is
and this is the difficulty is that you
are selling an act to
somebody who I'm not. You know, your
fans are going to be prim primarily
teenagers. Um, so you've kind of got to
guess what
that audience are going to like. U, but
don't overthink it because um
[sighs and gasps]
I I've seen a lot of people,
particularly recently, put bands
together and they walk out and within
one second I'm thinking all of this is
wrong. I can tell that someone's told
them what to wear. I know what their
spiel's going to be. It's all rehearsed.
Nothing spontaneous.
And I'm thinking, why does that person,
whoever's behind the scenes, why can't
they let them just be themselves? That's
why I said to One Direction, which is,
look, I can just give you a broad kind
of over, like I said, this is what's
going to probably happen when you're
successful. Um,
uh, and then after a few years, you're
going to want to leave the band. That's
going to happen. and blah blah blah
blah. Oh, no. We're going to be friends
forever. I said, "Yeah, whatever." Um um
do what you like. And that was sort of
it. Just say, "Look, when you got a
problem, come to me. Um
uh it's really down to you to make this
work. Uh you've got to love the records
you make. You've got to influence the
records you make. You can't dance, so
don't try and dance. Um, don't ever hire
a stylist because you've already got
great taste. Um, and just be yourselves
and most and really really have fun.
Because there, like I said, there will
be days where you're going to go, "Oh
god, [gasps and sighs]
I'm really tired. I don't like this."
And, you know, no one will leave me
alone. And then in 10 years time, you're
going to look back on this and go, "Wow,
we had a blast."
Could you have predicted? I know all the
boys have done really well in their own
endeavors, but Harry has become
well he still is a mega star and often
with boy bands once they break up you
know they kind of some of them fizzle
out and whatever but Harry seems to have
just taken on you know he's really
managed to find his own groove. Yeah, it
appears
I always I'm not I'm not going to lie. I
mean the first time I met Harry he sang
a Stevie Wander song. We spoke about
pies. So, I'm not sitting there thinking
you're going to become one of the most
successful artists in the world in 12
years time. I mean, no one would have
thought that. I just thought you're
unbelievably charismatic and you're fun.
Um, and the audience are like like you
and great. And then for whatever reason
it didn't work out in my opinion uh for
them as solo artists, you know, for
different reasons in that part of the
show. And then we just had this idea in
the moment to put them in a band. And
then like I said, you know, where I
think pretty much all of them have done
great is that they've used the the the
group as a vehicle to go where they
really want to go in their lives. And
would Harry be Harry without One
Direction? Well, none of us could answer
that. I I I I couldn't tell you. Um all
I know is being in the group definitely
made it easier,
of course.
And that's why uh I thought
interestingly uh about seven or eight
years ago, I thought there's not going
to be any need for these shows anymore
um because of social media. And here's
the crazy thing is that the amount of UK
artists that have broken globally in the
last say seven years has fallen off a
cliff. Literally, if you think about how
many global artists British have broken
globally in the last seven years, it's
possibly three, which is crazy. Think of
three.
Well,
[laughter]
So, um,
is AI a concern, an opportunity? Does it
cross your mind?
Uh, I think both. Uh, I don't think
you'll ever beat the real thing. Uh,
having said that, um, it'll happen. I
mean, sooner rather than later, I think
there already is a Japanese artist who
doesn't exist and she sells out
stadiums. Um, so, uh, uh, there's no
question it's going to it's going to
happen, but people are always going to
be more interested in the real thing. If
you go to a concert, you know, you want
to see those people. You want to say, I
was within touching distance of that
person, not something that doesn't
exist.
I I would I would agree to much a big
extent. I actually think that um a lot
of the people that are actually building
AI, like Sam Alman the other day, he
said he he believes that there's going
to be a huge surge in people's demand
and desire for real in-person
entertainment and experiences,
especially in a world if AI causes a
little bit of a displacement in the job
market and we have more free time, which
is what he he's the guy that's building
Chat GPT. He says that we're going to
see the industry boom around
entertainment. And I've actually got a
billionaire friend that lives about 5
minutes from here in a penthouse.
Billionaire in biotech, AI, everything.
He's just a super smart guy. And when I
sat with him, he said the same thing to
me. Um he said, "Do you know what's
going to boom?" He said, "People's need
for entertainment."
Yeah.
In a world where a lot of the work can
be even, you know, cars being a driver
is the biggest employer in the world,
the autonomous vehicles that are driving
around San Francisco as taxis now are a
glimpse of that future. So all these
people that are going to be displaced in
some way will need will have a lot of
free time. Yeah.
And that will cause us to be, you know,
maybe live in communes, but
also just to really go back to
real life experiences. And I did a post
the other day about this, how you see um
opposites rise, polar opposites rise
together, like digital music surged,
vinyl records become a little bit
popular, and bowling alleys are now, you
know, seeing a surge and these sort of
uh flight club and these sort of inerson
experiences because we've become so
digitalized. And I see entertainment as
one of those things like the
entertainment industry, concerts,
festivals,
yeah,
as being a nice place to run to from
headsets, you know.
No, I think you're right. I think and
it's it's a it's a good point you make
about the the two opposites um
fast fashion, slow fashion. We saw that
rise as well. What is so fascinating as
well is is is
seeing these brands which are 50 60
years old suddenly become super huge
again whether it's Lego whether it's
Mario Brothers whether it's Barbie um
because sometimes you know there's this
feeling of um am I just saying things
were better because I'm just getting
cranky which is quite depressing and
then I go actually no Queen or David
Bowie or Elton John were are the best
artists of all time. I mean, George
Michael just is.
Um, and I don't think there's anybody in
the world as good as George Michael
today. I genuinely don't. I wish there
was because, by the way, he was one of
the nicest people I'd ever met in my
life. Really?
Yeah.
But no, I think it we're just going
through a very interesting time right
now. And uh I'm a great believer embrace
anything that's going to help you. Um
don't dismiss it. But um I still think
you know when again when when I was
talking to One Direction, I remember
saying to them, "Our goal is for you to
have enough hits that if you ever reform
that you can do stadium tours. That
means you got to have about 10 hit
singles." Um uh because that's what
people want to hear. They want to hear
the hits.
Um, and you know, if they ever did
reform, that's exactly what would
happen.
Are they going to come back?
I doubt it.
You doubt it?
Spice Girls came back. Spice Girls came
back many years later.
The one thing I regret is I should have
kept the name.
Oh, you should have owned the name.
I should have the name. [clears throat]
You didn't own the name? No.
Who owns the name?
They do.
Oh, okay.
That's the problem. Could have made an
animation or whatever. Um, but when you
give an artist the name, it's not yours.
And that's my only regret. So, if you're
listening, I'll buy it back from you.
[laughter]
So, all five of them.
Do it as a partnership.
Well, uh I mean, yeah, I mean, sure.
There we go. [laughter] You were there.
But that's the only thing I I do regret.
Uh because if one of the band members
for whatever reason say they don't want
to tour, it can stop the others touring.
So if it was me who owned the name, it
wouldn't be a problem.
You could do a tour with three of them.
Ah, so that's what's stopping a tour
because they what? Do they all own 25
20%.
I believe so. Yes. I mean uh I can be
very naive at times and that was me
being very very naive.
Uh, so
next time that will be part of the deal.
I have to own the name.
They can still make most of the money,
but I need to own the name.
We have a closing tradition on this
podcast where the last guest leaves a
question for the next guest, not knowing
who they're going to be leaving it for.
Ah,
so the question that's been left for you
by our previous guest was, "What one
decision could you make today that would
have the most positive impact on your
life long term?"
Don't eat sugar.
Really?
Yeah.
Seriously,
that's true.
Sleeping.
It's not good for you.
Yeah.
Thank you so much. [music]
[music]
[singing]